Meeting notes 2023-05-29 (#87)
nodejs/performance: meetings/2023-05-29.md

# Node.js  Performance Team Meeting 2023-05-29

## Links

* **Recording**:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bqjXEyPQSfs
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/85

## Present

* Performance team: @nodejs/performance
* Ulises Gascon: @ulisesgascon
* Robert Nagy: @ronag
* Vinícius Lourenço: @H4ad
* Yagiz Nizipli: @anonrig

## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **performance-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

> * https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/48078
>   * It is providing a performance boost due the new Linux architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Libuv 1.45.0: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/48078
  * Thanks to @bnoordhuis and https://github.com/isc-projects which iiuc sponsored some of his work.
  * It is providing a performance boost due the new Linux architecture
```

> * https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/85#issuecomment-1563757752
>   * 30% boost at startup (v20.1.0 -> v20.2.0) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/85#issuecomment-1563757752
  * Thanks to @kvakil: 30% boost at startup (v20.1.0 -> v20.2.0) 
```

> * Ulises will help to host the next two meetings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Yagiz is leaving for paternity leave. Ulises will help to host the next two meetings.
```

### nodejs/performance

* Performance of WHATWG ReadableStream.read() [#82](https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/82)
  * We are a little bit slower in comparison with Bun and Deno
  * It will be nice to see if Deno/Bun is using native implementation or JS.
* Improve legacy CJS resolve #73
  * The current approach is to use `simdjson` to perform the JSON parsing and increase the performance. See: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/47991
  * @H4ad is working on this issue from now on
* MakeCallback is very slow [#24](https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/24)
  * We reached out to more people about it, including the TSC meeting.
  * We need to do a deeper investigation
  * This approach made by the `uWebSockets.js` is interesting. See: https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/24#issuecomment-1559993286

>   * Daniel & Yagiz will work soon in a new library to resolve the Websockets layer (compatible with Node.js)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Daniel(@lemire) & Yagiz will work soon in a new library to resolve the Websockets layer (compatible with Node.js)
```

* fetch [#11](https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/11)
  * No news, we will remove it from the agenda
  * Benchmarks and more info is needed before we can make any progress. 
  * Contributions from the community are more than welcome here.

## Q&A, Other

> *  Expensive `isTraceHTTPEnable` (https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/81) will be added back to the agenda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  Expensive `isTraceHTTPEnable` (https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/81) is worth mentioning. @H4ad is working on it.
```

> * Vinícius will be nominated as Performance Team member

Reviewer: Can we move this item to the announcements?

```suggestion
* Vinícius is nominated/invited to the Performance Team. Reference: https://github.com/nodejs/performance/issues/86
```
